# Repository Manager Concept

Components
Assets
Repository

Repository Formats

## Components

A **component** is a resource like a library or a framework that is used as part of your software application. Typically these components are **archives of a large variety of files**. The archives are using numerous formats such as Java `JAR`, `WAR`, `EAR` formats, plain `ZIP` or `.tar.gz` files.

> component常常指arhives of a large vaiety of files。

## Assets

The actual archive file is **an asset** associated with **the component**. More complex formats however have **numerous assets** associated with **a component**. For example, a typical JAR component in a Maven repository is defined at least by the POM and the JAR files - both of which constitute separate assets belonging to the same components. Additional files such as JavaDoc or Sources JAR files are assets that belong to the same component.

> asset是比component更小的概念，是指具体的文件；而component是一组asset的集合。

## Components in Repositories

In order to ease the consumption and usage of **components**, they are aggregated into **collections of components**. These are called a **repository** and are typically available on the internet as a service. 

> repository是component的集合，因此repository是比component更大的概念。

### Repository Formats

The different repositories use different technologies to store and expose the components in them to client tools. This defines a repository format and as such is closely related to the tools interacting with the repository.

> Repository Format的本质是对于component集合进行管理的一种数据组织的方式，或者说数据组织的结构。

For example, the Maven repository format relies on a specific directory structure defined by the identifiers of the components and a number of XML formatted files for metadata. Component interaction is performed via plain HTTP commands and some additional custom interaction with the XML files.

> 以Maven repository为例，遵从一定的目录结构，包含特定的文件存储 **元数据**，还有component之间交互的方式。

Other repository formats use databases for storage and REST API interactions, or different directory structures with format specific files for the metadata.

##  Maven Repository Format

- Repository
    - **Component Metadata**. All software components added to the Central Repository require proper metadata, including a Project Object Model (POM) for each component.
    - **Release Stability**. Once published to the Central Repository, a component and the metadata describing that component never change. 
    - **Component Security**. The Central Repository contains cryptographic hashes and PGP signatures that can be used to verify the authenticity and integrity of software components
    - **Performance**. The Central Repository is exposed to the users globally via a high performance content delivery network of servers.
- Component
    - pom.xml
        - 坐标GAV（groupId/ArtifactId/version/packaging）
        - dependency

- Release/Snapshot

A Maven repository stores two types of components: `releases` and `snapshots`. Release repositories are for stable, static release components. Snapshot repositories are frequently updated repositories that store binary software components from projects under constant development.


## Managing Repositories

URL： https://help.sonatype.com/repomanager3/repository-manager-concepts/managing-repositories

Put simply, **a repository manager** provides **two core features**:

- **the ability to proxy a remote repository and cache components** saving both bandwidth and time required to retrieve a software component from a remote repository repeatedly
- **the ability the host a repository** providing an organization with a deployment target for internal software components

Just as Source Code Management (SCM) tools are designed to manage source code, repository managers have been designed to manage and track external dependencies and components generated by your build.

> 与SCM进行对比，SCM是进行源代码的管理；  
> 而repository manager是对于外部依赖的jar包进行管理、对于自己构建的jar包进行管理。














