# Apache Maven Eclipse Plugin (RETIRED)

URL: http://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-eclipse-plugin/

**The Maven Eclipse Plugin** is used to generate **Eclipse IDE files** (`*.classpath`, `*.project`, `*.wtpmodules` and the `.settings` folder) for use with a project.

The `eclipse` goal of the `maven-eclipse-plugin` would actually: generates the Eclipse configuration files which basically means `.project`, `.classpath` and the `.settings` folder.

- `eclipse:configure-workspace` is used to add the classpath variable `M2_REPO` to Eclipse which points to your local repository and optional to configure other workspace features.
- `eclipse:eclipse` generates the Eclipse configuration files.
- `eclipse:clean` is used to delete the files used by the Eclipse IDE.

## `eclipse:eclipse`

URL: http://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-eclipse-plugin/eclipse-mojo.html

Generates the following eclipse configuration files:

- `.project` and `.classpath` files
- `.setting/org.eclipse.jdt.core.prefs` with project specific compiler settings
- various configuration files for WTP (Web Tools Project), if the parameter `wtpversion` is set to a valid version (WTP configuration is not generated by default)

## eclipse:clean

URL: http://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-eclipse-plugin/clean-mojo.html

Deletes the `.project`, `.classpath`, `.wtpmodules` files and `.settings` folder used by Eclipse.

## `eclipse:configure-workspace`

URL: http://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-eclipse-plugin/configure-workspace-mojo.html

Configures The following Eclipse Workspace features:

- Adds the classpath variable `MAVEN_REPO` to Eclipse.
- Optionally load Eclipse code style file via a URL.
